#Alloy Model of the Raft Consensus Algorithm
An attempt at creating a simple model of the Raft Consensus Algorithm in
[Alloy](http://alloy.mit.edu/alloy/).

##Raft
The [Raft Consensus Algorithm](https://raft.github.io/) is designed to be an
easy to understand distributed consensus algorithm. There is a great
visualization of how it operates at
[thesecretlivesofdata.com/raft/](http://thesecretlivesofdata.com/raft/).

##My Model
As it currently stands this model breaks time into two categories:

- States
- Terms

A State is essentially a clock tick, some unit of time to break down the model
by. While a Term is essentially the lifetime of a leader Node (almost analogous
to Raft's definition of a Term with the exception that the model doesn't handle
elections at this time).

The State signature is the only one making use of Alloy's builtin util/ordering.
Terms are constrained to have only contiguous States. Terms do not use
util/ordering in order to keep the model simple.

States may also hold messages from the leader of the current Term. These
messages are just a single value that all follower Nodes should update to.

###Storing and Updating Values
Nodes currently store a single value (rather than the log in Raft) as an
integer. The update process for the model currently specifies that at some time
the leader is updated and sends out a message telling follower Nodes to update
to that value. If and only if a Node receives a message from a leader to change
to a value then may a Node change to that value.

Alloy's lack of an assignment operator makes defining an 'Update' quite
difficult. Therefore, this model simply increments the value of a Node rather
than assigning a new one.

###Issues
The fact constraining that only leader Nodes should be able to send messages
seems to over-constrain the model, as no instances are generated by the 'show'
predicate when it is included. I have not found the reason that this is
over-constraining.
